This text was taken
from The Watchtower with the theme:
“Serving Jehovah
Before the Days of Distress Come.”
And the scripture
was Ecclesiastes 12:1:
“Remember . . .
your Grand Creator.”
Now for some of us
present here this morning, we must admit
the days of distress
have arrived.
Let’s open our Bibles
and look at something in the 90th Psalm.
Psalm 90:10 says:
“The span of our life is 70 years,
“or 80 if one
is especially strong.
“But they are filled
with trouble and sorrow;
“they quickly pass by,
and away we fly.”
It makes us think
of the words of Barzillai.
He made a comment
at 2 Samuel 19:
“How many days of my life are left that I
should go up with the king to Jerusalem?
“I am 80 years old today.
“Can I discern
between good and bad?
“Can I, your servant,
taste what I eat and drink?
Can I still listen to the voice
of male and female singers?”
Now I can tell you from experience,
when you reach the age of 80,
birds may be singing
when you wake up in the morning,
but many of us
can’t hear them.
We’re just too old.
However, it goes without saying,
wisdom accompanies age.
So this puts
a little light, good light,
on those of us
who are 80 and beyond.
In fact the Bible says:
“Gray hair is a crown of beauty
when it is found
in the way of righteousness.”
Now there are many scriptures
in the Hebrew Scriptures especially
that shed light
on older people
in a very favorable way.
One said: “Before gray hair
you should rise up,
“and you must show honor
to an older man
“[and, of course,
we can include woman],
“and you must be
in fear of your God.
I am Jehovah.”
Jehovah does not leave us
when we get old;
neither does he forget
what we did
when we were young
and healthy.
It made me think
of a situation
that happened in my life
when I was a young boy.
My father told me
to take our two mules, Jim and Old Jack,
to the creek
so they could drink some water.
Later, my father asked me
if I watered the mules.
I told him: “Yes, I took Jim
down there and gave him some water.
“I didn’t bother Old Jack.
Old Jack hadn’t done anything
all day long, just stayed in the barn.”
My father said: “I want you
to go back and get Old Jack
“and take him down and let him
drink some water, just like you did Jim.
“Old Jack has spent
his whole life
“so that we
could have bread on the table.
We’re not going to throw him away
now that he has grown old.”
Well that stuck with me,
and it made me think, too,
of what the Bible says
in Hebrews 6:10:
“For God is not unrighteous
so as to forget your work
“and the love
you showed for his name
by ministering and continuing to minister
to the holy ones.”
So Jehovah wants us to continue,
even when we’re older,
to perform our ministry,
perhaps to slow down a little
but not to stop.
So share the good news
you know about Jehovah
with the next generation.
That’s what Psalm 78
encourages us to do.
It says, “relate
to the generation to come.”
Make these things known
to their children,
the next generation.
So we have the responsibility,
those of us who are older,
80 and beyond
or 60 and beyond,
50 and beyond,
you just figure out what’s old.
But now where
and when can you do that?
How can you encourage
the younger ones?
I don’t know how you can do that,
where and when.
I don’t know
your circumstances,
but I’m going to give you
some situations: your room.
A member of the Governing Body
invited my wife and I
when we were serving
in the district here to come to his room
and sit in on his
family Bible study.
Well, we thought,
‘That is quite an honor, my land,
to be able to come to a member
of the Governing Body’s room and his wife.’
And so we went in, and we studied
for the school and the service meeting.
On the way home, my wife said,
“You know, he studies just like we do.”
Well, that’s the way
we all should study.
What about field service?
Between doors,
stop and smell the roses
with the younger ones
that you are working with.
Breakfast meals,
squeeze out a “Good morning”
and a warm smile.
It may be the best you can do
that early in the morning.
During the noon meal, mention how Jehovah
has helped you years ago.
What about to and from meetings
in the automobile?
Share a comment heard
that made your day.
During intermission
at circuit and regional conventions?
Oh, well, you’re saying,
‘I’m too tired for that.’
Then just sit there
and look happy.
When in the infirmary,
nurses like to break the spell of pain
and sickness with a little humor.
Show them your picture
that was taken
on your wedding day
60 years ago.
They will not believe it’s you
and will talk about it when you leave.
Older ones, don’t concentrate
on what you no longer are able to do.
Give what you’re able to give,
give it joyfully, share what you still have
with the next generation.
It will encourage them
and definitely please Jehovah.
Now, what about
you younger ones?
Well, the Bible tells you
to ‘remember your Creator
‘in the days of your young manhood
[or your young womanhood]
before the calamitous days
or the days of distress arrive.’
And they’re going to come, and they’re going
to hit you like a ton of bricks,
and there’s nothing
that you will be able to do
to prevent
that from happening.
It’s just part of being
in this wicked world
and being filled with sin.
So Jehovah knows,
though, what we have to give,
and he doesn’t expect us
to give any more than we have.
So do your best.
Continue working hard
in Kingdom service.
Give your youth
and vitality to Jehovah.
You’ll never regret it,
and Jehovah definitely will not forget
the love you showed
for his name.
He will see to it
that you “have the full assurance
of the hope
down to the end.”